---
title: King Charles III's Birthday on 20 June 2024 - Ms Grace Fu
permalink: /resource-room/category/2024-06-20-speech-by-ms-grace-fu-at-the-reception-of-king-charles-III-birthday.md
image: 
file_url: 
description: 
---

### Remarks by Ms Grace Fu, Minister of Sustainability and the Environment and Minister-in-charge of Trade Relations, at the reception of King Charles III's Birthday on 20 June 2024

Your Excellency Kara Owen, High Commissioner of the United Kingdom to Singapore,

Excellencies,

Distinguished Guests,

Ladies and Gentlemen,

1  It is a great pleasure and honour to join you this evening to celebrate the birthday of His Majesty King Charles III. On behalf of the Government of Singapore, I extend our warmest congratulations and best wishes to His Majesty on this joyous occasion.

2  His Majesty King Charles III is familiar with Singapore. He has made two official visits to Singapore, in 1979 and 2017 as the Prince of Wales. 

3  Over the years, we have hosted several visits by other members of the Royal Family. These include three state visits by Her Late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II in 1972, 1989 and 2006. Most recently, the Prince of Wales, Prince William, visited Singapore in November 2023 for the Earthshot Prize Awards Ceremony, during which he met with President Tharman Shanmugaratnam, then-PM Lee Hsien Loong and then-DPM Lawrence Wong, amongst other leaders. 

4  These visits reaffirm the historic and long-standing relations between Singapore and the UK. The relationship between Singapore and the United Kingdom is one of depth and breadth, built on a foundation of shared history, mutual respect, and a forward-looking partnership. 

5  In the past year, we have further strengthened our bilateral relations. In September 2023, then-PM Lee Hsien Loong and PM Rishi Sunak announced the elevation of bilateral relations to a Strategic Partnership on the sidelines of the G20 summit in New Delhi. This partnership is testament to our shared commitment to strengthening collaboration in key areas such as trade, investment, science, technology, and education.

6  The United Kingdom continues to be an important partner for Singapore. The UK is Singapore’s fourth-largest goods trading partner, with bilateral trade in goods valued at S$16 billion. On services, the UK is our largest partner in Europe. This robust economic relationship is complemented by significant UK investments in Singapore. The UK is the largest investor from Europe in Singapore and is Singapore’s second largest investment destination in Europe. These figures demonstrate how closely intertwined our countries are economically. 

7  Over the decades, we have cultivated multifaceted cooperation in a variety of areas. Defence cooperation remains a key part of our bilateral ties, as the UK is a valued partner under the Five Power Defence Arrangements.

8  In addition, our educational and cultural exchanges further enrich the tapestry of our relationship. This year, we welcomed 186 UK students under the A*STAR Research Attachment Programme, 43 under the Singapore International Graduate Award, and 52 under the Singapore International Pre-Graduate Award. 

9  The thousands of Singaporeans who embark on undergraduate and postgraduate studies in the UK each year, including many in the public service, also reinforce the bonds between our two countries. Their bonds with the UK manifest in many ways, such as their love for the pubs and the English Premier League, and often remain strong even long after their return. 

10  These engagements are a testament to the friendship between our nations and our strong people-to-people ties. 

11  Over the last 2 centuries, the UK has shaped the history of Singapore. Our political, administration and legal systems, city planning, historical buildings trace their roots to the Kingdom. Many of us grew up with the music of the Beatles, Elton John and more recently Adele. 

12  In 2025, we will celebrate the 60th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Singapore and the UK. In many Asian cultures, 60 years is an important year as marks the start of a new life cycle. It will be an occasion to reflect and consolidate on our past achievements and look forward to creating new potential and opportunities of the future. 

13  I am confident that in the years to come, the relationship between Singapore and the United Kingdom will continue to thrive and reach new heights.

High Commissioner,

Excellencies,

Ladies and Gentlemen,

14  Following the British National Anthem, I would like to propose a toast to His Majesty the King’s good health, and to the enduring friendship and goodwill between Singapore and the United Kingdom.
