Opening address by SMS Dr Amy Khor for the launch of ALBA’S first electric vehicle for waste and recyclables collection in Singapore on 14 June 2023

Dr Axel Schweitzer, Chairman of ALBA Group Asia and Interzero
Mr Jakob Lambsdorff, CEO of ALBA W&H Pte.Ltd
Mr S. Sashikumar, General Manager of ALBA W&H
Ms Melissa Tan, CEO of W&H
Mr Leow Beng Kwang, Principal Engineer of PWC Management
Guests from Scania, EVOne Charging, Zenith Engineering, Invent Engineering as well as my colleagues from NEA

1	Very good morning to one and all. I am happy to be here for the unveiling of ALBA’s fully electric vehicles today. 

2	I think everybody knows that climate change is a global existential challenge all of us face because it is right here, right at our doorsteps. We are all experiencing the impact in one way or another. Even as we speak, we know that extreme weather events are happening very frequently across the world. We see how drying rivers in US, Europe and China are affecting power generation, which is not just affected by the Ukraine war. Climate change has affected that as well as riverine transportation, and agriculture. On the other hand, devastating floods along the east coast of Australia, India, and Bangladesh have affected millions of people. In Singapore, we have all been complaining about the sizzling heat. Temperatures reached 37 degrees. The temperature was 40 degrees when I was in Las Vegas. When I came out, I actually could not breathe. Temperatures in some parts of Vietnam have gone up to that point too. And of course, we have more frequent and intense rainfall. 

3	Recently, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, in its latest report, called for the urgent need for all of us globally to reach net zero carbon emissions by 2050. Singapore is committed to meet this challenge head-on with net zero emissions by 2050. That’s our national climate target under the SG Green Plan 2030.

4	For the land transport sector, there was hardly any electric vehicles in 2017. The lack of models was among the challenges, relating to heavy vehicles in particular, that we studied. Having said that, we acknowledge that the land transport sector accounts for about 15% of our national emissions, and indeed, we need to decarbonise the sector to help us achieve our net zero ambition.

5	Under the Green Plan, to help us decarbonise the land transport sector in particular, one of the things we need to do is cease registration of new diesel cars and taxis from 2025 as well as require all new car and taxi registrations to be of cleaner-energy models from 2030. 

6	To support this electrification, the Government plans to deploy 60,000 EV charging points nationwide by 2030.   

7	Commercial heavy vehicles contribute about 70% of emissions in the land transport sector. It is therefore important that we reduce emissions from this group of vehicles. 

8	To align with our net zero ambition, licensees appointed by the National Environment Agency (NEA) to provide refuse and recyclables collection services to domestic and trade premises are required to provide a minimum number of electric vehicles for refuse and recyclables collection. 

9	In addition, we also encourage public waste collectors like ALBA to use innovative concepts and technologies to improve productivity and sustainability in the collection of refuse and recyclables. I commend ALBA-Wah & Hua for previously installing overhead solar panels on forty of its refuse and recyclables collection trucks to harness solar energy to power ancillary equipment such as on-board cameras. That helps to reduce emissions from operations. 

10	Currently, each waste collection truck with a conventional internal-combustion engine emits a staggering 500kg of carbon dioxide per day. Electrifying refuse and recyclables collection vehicles is challenging due to the high energy demand of such vehicles that carry loads of up to 20 tonnes and travel some 150km per day. Therefore, we welcome these fully electric trucks that ALBA will be using.

11	ALBA has found a way to overcome this challenge by using Scania’strucks. I understand that this electric truck chassis offers a 40% larger battery capacity and optimises energy consumption compared to the first generation of electric trucks. This means that this batch of ALBA’s trucks can perform what the company’s current trucks can do in a day on a single battery charge. That effectively overcomes one of the key hurdles in the electrification of such heavy vehicles.

12	These 15 fully electric trucks have zero tailpipe emissions and are also relatively quieter, helping to reduce both carbon emissions and noise pollution during the transport of waste and recyclables.

13	ALBA also shared its plans to install solar panels on its premises and explore using the energy generated to charge the trucks. 

14	Congratulations on this milestone in your operations. I hope this paves the way for more such efforts by both the company as well as others that rely on energy-intensive vehicles for their operations.  

15	With companies like ALBA playing their part to support our green ambitions and more coming on board, we can further reduce our reliance on fossil fuels and the carbon footprint of the waste management industry.

16	Thank you, and I look forward to the test drive and demonstration of the electric truck later.
